greetings everyone all across the world
and a hundred and something countries
Lazlo Montgomery here once again with
another CHP episode number 203 this time
and a particularly warm welcome to any
new listeners and maybe saw this topic
and are joining our little China history
podcast community for the first time I
hope you like what you hear finally
everyone who has been imploring me all
these years to cover this topic can stop
with the emails here it is but here's
the thing I never studied martial arts I
had friends who did but I myself never
walk down that path for this reason I
was a little reluctant to take on such a
serious topic martial arts isn't a
religion or anything but it is a way of
life for a lot of people everywhere so I
guess it was out of respect for those
who were serious practitioners of
martial arts and my hesitation not to
let anyone down that despite this being
the most requested topic and CHP history
I hadn't covered it until now that is
you see I was 12 when the big boss came
out 1971 and I was 13 when the Chinese
connection and the way of the Dragon
were released and 14 when Enter the
Dragon hit the screens back in the North
suburbs of Chicago and one of the most
important and memorable films of my
youth Billy Jack also 1971 Tom Laughlin
I never practiced any kung fu' or
Hapkido like Billy Jack did but well I
couldn't play the guitar either that
didn't mean I didn't love to listen to
Led Zeppelin from seeing Bruce Lee for
the first time and watching him
introduce kung-fu to America I couldn't
get enough of these martial arts movies
that kung fu genre I was always a fan I
me the El Rey channel I loved it so
despite these feelings about Chinese
martial arts I was pretty much destined
to be just a spectator not the end of
the world I'm still trying to figure out
how to do an episode or a series on the
whole come fruit genre of movies I'm not
going to get into that in this two-part
series but that's a great
EPIK in all the decades that I've been
living not a single time not once did I
ever run into anyone who couldn't stay
in those kinds of movies were some
helpless individuals suffering some
indignity or humiliation at the hands of
antagonize errs is saved by some lone
hero with his bare hands who subdues
these bad guys I mean this is a theme
that hasn't gone out of style since time
immemorial the triumph of the person in
distress thanks to the modest unassuming
individual with martial arts skills who
shows up on the scene and overpowers the
bad guys well there's more to it than
that but those heroes were my gateway
and you don't have to practice martial
arts from China or anywhere else in the
world to appreciate what it's all about
I have this sneaking suspicion that one
or two will shoot enthusiasts are gonna
tune in and check this episode out so
let me give you an idea about what to
expect first of all being the China
history podcast and all this episode is
gonna be chock-full of Chinese names and
terms and over at my website a teacup
top media you could click on the page
for the episode and you'll see a
downloadable PDF of all the Chinese
terms listed the pinyin the characters
the English and where applicable I've
also stuck in the Cantonese romanization
for columns everyone's a winner I'm
gonna start off with a little overview
of the history of Chinese martial arts
no deep dives just a flat stone skimming
the surface but by the end of part one
I'm guessing you'll have a full stomach
I can't say you won't have any
indigestion later but if you didn't know
much about the Chinese martial arts
before you might be the smartest person
in the room wherever you end up tonight
my focus for this part 1 episode is
going to be on the history of the
martial arts and then in part 2 I'll
zoom in on the history of the Wing Chun
style and its most famous Grandmaster
this isn't going to be a series that
discusses techniques or the merits of
one style over another
this is just the history of the people
and the times and how Chinese will shrew
developed the list of noted martial arts
masters from the earliest times to the
present day is no less lengthy than the
list of painters calligraphers
philosophers and other china literary
greats tracing everything back to the
beginning martial arts at its genesis
was something limited to defending
oneself killing animals or killing
people in the beginning there was no
such thing as martial arts as
entertainment or as a sport or something
to practice for spiritual and physical
health promotion it was all very
practical stuff around 9,000 years ago
humans had figured out how to extract
copper from ores then later on they
figured out how to add anywhere from 5
to 20 percent of tin to the copper to
create humankind's first metal alloy
bronze this is around 3500 BCE and once
the whole metal thing got figured out
weapons started to get a lot more deadly
and serious and took on a more
front-and-center position in the martial
arts according to legend Chinese martial
arts originated during the mythical Chou
dynasty 2072 1600 BCE it's written that
the Yellow Emperor whose legendary reign
began prior to the shop in 2698 BCE
introduced the earliest fighting systems
to China the Yellow Emperor Li gets
credit for so many things among them
included his role as a general who
before becoming China's leader wrote
lengthy treatises on medicine astrology
and the martial arts now one of the
yellow Emperor's opponents was named
cheerio cheerio like the Yellow Emperor
comes to a straight out of the three
sovereigns and five Emperor's period of
prehistory among other things cheerio is
noted for besides being one of the
several legendary founding fathers of
China he was also a sake
cow particularly among the Miao ethnic
race of people here in the US we know
the mule has the Hmong people for six
arms each holding a weapon more terrible
than the other many called him a God of
War
Leo bong gave an offering to cheerio on
the eve of his final showdown with Xiang
Yu there was the Yellow Emperor who
faced down cheerio at the Battle of julu
the JA Luger John 2500 BCE mas o menos a
one additional accolade ascribed to
cheerio is that he was the creator of
Jody Jody is probably the oldest known
form of wrestling in China the term Jody
means to headbutt JAL means horn so
perhaps the fighters as they grappled
with each other wore headgear with horns
attached and this style of Jody fighting
goes back as much as 5,000 years
Cheerios time today there are hundreds
of styles of Chinese martial arts but in
its most ancient forms there were just
two the one I just mentioned Jody and
the other was called sh Y gel tri gel
today is the Chinese word for wrestling
but back in the day it was a very
distinct form of martial arts it got
broken down later on into Beijing
Tianjin Shaanxi and Bao ding styles
martial arts in these Bronze Age Iron
Age times was almost exclusively about
combat and how best to execute it there
was no one-size-fits-all regimen or
style of fighting yet of course there
were variations and styles and
techniques but nobody was treating this
yet as a standalone art for which
treatises and other literary works were
being written in fact the proliferation
of styles we know of today really didn't
emerge until the UN and Ming dynasties
1200 s to mid 16 hundreds that was when
so many of the great masters began
teaching of course much of what was
being taught was known for centuries but
only this late in the game were these
martial arts being named organized and
sorted out for better understanding
some parts of this most ancient period
of recorded Chinese history are lost to
us forever the books didn't make it but
a lot of legends did get passed down and
the Masters and grandmasters who came
later would hearken back to this violent
age and the battles and good deeds of
the Knights and perhaps they'd attempt
to tie some aspect of their style of
fighting or its origins to this fabled
time nothing gave a style of wushu more
respect than being able to claim such an
ancient provenance the three Bronze Age
dynasties in China the mythical Shah the
Shang and the Jo this was the most
primitive age for Chinese martial arts
the Jo was founded by King one Joel when
Wong and in addition to overthrowing the
Shang and establishing the Jo dynasty he
also gave us the eight trigrams as
mentioned in that past episode covering
the eaching the bagua from which we get
Bhagwat Jeong Jeong meaning palm of
one's hand eight trigram palm bagua the
eight trigrams will mention ba kua Jiang
later on around 500 BC is when the
Chinese figured out how to carburized
iron and later steel which led to longer
and deadlier swords and with that
another art that emerged from the Jo
dynasty China's feudal age was the art
of sword play or chinfa once swords were
incorporated into the Chinese arsenal of
weapons it too became a practiced
martial art and during the Han Dynasty
spears were added to the master
swordsman's dances and performances and
martial arts dances these routines
carried out by all soldiers were
practiced even during the bronze age
dynasties martial arts dancing and
swordplay he still alive today more than
2,000 years of history and practice the
li ji the book of rites attributed to
the Duke of Joe one of the most sacred
names in Chinese history to come out of
that age
and son of kinguin it mentions drills
and training involving wrestling and
Shobha Shobha was a kind of hand-to-hand
combat show meaning hand boy well that's
another word for to wrestle competitions
involving hand-to-hand combat between
soldiers was already common by the
eastern Joe more or less 772 255 BCE
those times were very violent by the end
of the warring States period 256 BCE
winces art of war had already been
written the hundred schools of
philosophy the by gia had come and gone
and as you recall from that nine part
history of Chinese philosophy series the
emergence of these Knights errant had
happened these wandering Knights were
the people who launched a thousand lcia
kung-fu novels these shirt or Knights
were not only the base from which the
whole ruse cool of philosophy emerged of
which Confucius was the most famous name
they were also the first to begin the
teaching and dissemination of their
knowledge of armed and unarmed combat an
aristocrat and his shirt all came from
aristocratic backgrounds they grew up
knowing this stuff it was all part of
program remember that Leo II from the
philosophy series the six arts the six
things you had to know growing up if you
were a male aristocrat with any chance
of a future ahead of you
Lee look sure you true true
understanding the rights music archery
chariot airing calligraphy and math yeah
archery that was the skill a martial
artist had to know above all else in the
Bronze Age at least even Confucius knew
how to handle a bow and arrow and the
great sage maintained that a proper
jinsa or gentleman aristocrat as defined
by the roof school should be well versed
in both won and wool letters and martial
arts wool meaning military or martial
shoe meaning arts shoe martial arts
the seven major weapons of this age the
Jo were the good two dagger-axe G a
halberd or a weapon that combined a good
and a mall a mall being a pike or a
spear you also had the bee show a kind
of a dagger a fool which is an axe and a
yea or battle-ax
like a halberd later on in the sway came
the Cheung or long spare it's also the
character for gun the peasantry they had
no use for these martial arts they had a
pretty set job and certainly they had no
money to buy weapons or pay fees to
learn these skills martial arts was
purely something practiced taught and
performed by the upper crust only they
owned weapons only they knew how to use
them effectively that was a major
distinction between the nobility and the
rest of society the ability to fight and
to kill and for the entirety of China's
feudal history that's what these Knights
did they were brought up in a very rigid
system learned the six arts and served
their feudal lord and when the Joe
ruling house started to lose its
authority and central control over China
which back then was about 20% of the
size it is today these Nobles who serve
the Joe King loyally at first started
knocking each other off to take over
their lands so that they could
ultimately knock off the Joe and become
the one kingdom to rule them all so it
was a constant period of warfare
gunpowder it was still more than a
thousand years in the future combat was
all up close and personal and these
Knights were good at their job you know
some were magnificent and when the time
came and a neighboring kingdom or state
invaded another it always came down to
these nobles and aristocrats serving
their feudal lord to rustle up a militia
mobilize the men in the villages and
these farmers would grab a shovel and
axe or whatever tools of the trade they
had and they were expected to go out and
fight right behind the professional
soldiers but only the noble leading them
and the Knights that had sworn fealty to
him Oh
they had weapons and knew these
tried-and-true fighting skills and of
course they oliday familiarity with
violence but you remember from the
philosophy series that all came to an
end when the dozens and dozens of feudal
kingdoms had sprung up during the spring
and autumn and warring States Period 's
finally dwindled down to just seven all
these defeated feudal lords were put out
of business and all the Knights who had
paid fealty to these vanquished Lords
had to hit the road jack with no feudal
lord to serve these men became known as
Knights errant or as I said a shirt a a
wandering knight martial arts was solely
about armed and unarmed combat kill or
be killed
the whole idea of a holistic martial
arts discipline that nurtured the spirit
and allowed one to carry out a degree of
self cultivation that was in the future
still but the idea that certain martial
arts contributed to one's self
cultivation while that seed began to
grow during this Eastern Cho dynasty era
that preceded the Qin but the wandering
sure was a new Phenom and from these
knights-errant came the figure I'm
guessing all of us have loved admired
and respected in popular culture
anywhere in the world he or she roamed
the righteous hero or heroine who was
their own person they belong to no one
not tied to any single political
authority they feared not death and used
their combat skills to avenge the
wronged and defend those who suffered
wrongful oppression yep Kwai Chang Caine
he was one he wasn't he wasn't a form of
night he came from a monastery but you
know what I mean that hero who wandered
the land a lone wolf
that's where these stories began in
China with these Knights errant and
their deeds these Knights were all
educated in the six arts they didn't
study Confucius because the Great Sage
only died in 479 BCE and it wasn't until
the early Han Dynasty centuries later
they
he became all the rage as far as when
did wushu emerge as a popular form of
entertainment we first begin to get a
whiff of this as far back as the war
wracked Qin Dynasty the Qin China's
first imperial dynasty 221 to 206 BCE
not long lasting as dynasties go but it
had almost 2,000 years of impact on
everything that followed in Chinese
history in the Qin the concept of wushu
as entertainment first began to spread
throughout the land that short-lived
dynasty was all about pushing the
borders of China out to it's more
natural shape that we know of today the
military was the only way for Joe Blow
to get anywhere in life so becoming
proficient in the martial arts as taught
in the military was necessary and a fast
track to possible Glory after the fall
of the Qin and after Leo bung and Xiang
Yu had their final showdown at guys sha
and 202 BCE there followed the Han
Dynasty which ran from the two hundred
years before and after the birth of
Jesus here was the time in Chinese
history where everything in the world of
wushu started to get written down in
more detail the official history of the
dynasty the Honshu the book of Han
mentions all kinds of known wushu
techniques for both armed and unarmed
combat late Han one milestone work
produced was the whooshing XI the five
animal exercise that took its
inspiration from the movements of the
tiger deer beer ape and bird five
animals five elements remember the
whooshing wood water fire earth metal
the special number five these five chi
gong exercises have been practiced for
2,000 years and had both a yin and yang
routine that related directly to the
health of your tongue and your fool
that's one of the cornerstones of TCM
traditional Chinese medicine
your tongue are your internal organs the
heart liver spleen lung kidney your fool
are your small and large intestine
gallbladder bladder and stomach that
sung our Yin in nature and the food are
young in nature yin and yang
let's not wander any deeper into the
weeds here with all these TCM concepts
but you can see how Chinese martial arts
began to wander way beyond just
self-defence and fighting throughout a
lot of these official dynastic histories
there's plenty of mentions of a large
cast of martial arts masters a lot of
them are mentioned and lauded for their
techniques and skills but well there's
less mention of what these techniques
actually were but they did shine a light
on what was the state of the art from
century to century with respect to the
development of hand-to-hand combat
techniques and all manners of weapons
following the fall of the Han Dynasty
there was a long period of invasion from
the north from the Mongols and other
nomadic tribes of the steppe and they -
like everyone else in the world had
their own particular martial arts skill
set that they brought to China and all
these styles from lands north and west
of China mingled with all the homegrown
styles and techniques that had developed
along the Yellow River Valley
well Han Dynasty ended in 220 then there
was the Three Kingdoms period and then
the Jin now for Chinese martial arts now
things are gonna start getting good that
Jin dynasty didn't last long - 80 - 420
and in the fifth century China broke
into several pieces again and this
period of disunity is of course called
the southern and northern dynasties
period nan beach all 422 589 lots of
stuff starts happening in China in the
wenshan it's a literary anthology
written during the Liang dynasty 502 to
557 that's when the term wushu first
appears the term was mentioned in a poem
but it referred to will shoot in the
military context only not as a health
improvement regimen and not as a form of
public entertainment or anything
spiritual prior to that the Chinese term
for martial arts was initially called
wui which also translates to martial
arts in fact the character 4e and Xu
both means skill or art but Xu if you
check the good book the good at pleco Xu
also means technique method and tactics
so wushu is certainly a more appropriate
term a couple things happened that were
important to the development and later
propagation of Chinese martial arts
especially the kung-fu style of fighting
which in Chinese is called gongfu the
word kung foo first showed up in the
West only during the mid-1960s it was
mentioned in an article in punch
magazine in the old way jail system of
romanization the word for Gong was
spelled ke u ng pinyin gon G Wu and is
still food no matter way giles or pin
yen so kung foo in chinese is pronounced
gongfu it's one of these words with more
than one meaning but for the purposes of
this two hundred and third episode of
the chp it means skill or effort when
did this gum fool word become best known
as the characters for kung fu martial
arts now that was a I was a 20th century
thing you know the Oxford English
Dictionary once defined kung fu as a
Chinese form of karate ouch in the
landmark year of 495 the air the dog
Northern Wei Emperor shelwyn sanctioned
the building of the shaolin temple to
honor the chan monk bathua chan is a
chinese homegrown sect of buddhism that
in addition to china really took hold in
japan and is known as n over there bat
hua was the first abbot of shaolin
temple and monastery he was not a han
chinese as may be
Indian or Central Asian Batwa came to
the area and 464 to spread Buddhist
teachings the temple was built in the
four 70s in the monastery in 495 and
thanks to the efforts of Dhamma around
the 520 s it became a center for Chan
Buddhism in China and at this temple the
monks there developed their own style of
Chen or boxing it all began with Bodhi
Dharma or pootie da hua in Chinese 5th
6th century he's also referred to as
simply Dhamma Bodhi Dharma preached
Buddhism wherever he traveled around
Asia and brought Chan Buddhism to China
and Kung Fu to Shaolin all kinds of
incredible legends and stories are told
of Bodhi Dharma and what he did during
his years at Shaolin he died in 528 and
ever since his passing Shaolin Temple
and the monastery became the
headquarters of Chan Buddhism in China
and Dom hua is called the founder as far
as where Bodhi Dharma came from and when
he came to China as only legends some
say it was during the leo song and some
say during the liang 502 to 557 some say
he came from india some say Central Asia
he was called the blue-eyed barbarian
the bein who Bodhidharma Dawa is first
mentioned in the record of the Buddhist
monasteries compiled in 547 it says he
was Persian and other writings no one
can agree on where he originated from da
moi is also considered the 28th
patriarch of Buddhism going all the way
back to Gautama Buddha himself and the
Buddha lived during the time of
Confucius and other greats from the
hundred schools who we mentioned in the
nine part history of Chinese philosophy
series he is the mythical founder of
shaolin kung foo he's credited with
first teaching the Buddhist inspired
Rohan Sherpa show the lawhon eight
hands this is the oldest form of shaolin
kung fu' a kind of 18 chi gong exercises
that's referred to in writings there
were two other Qigong exercises who that
were also introduced by bodhidharma the
lawhon were the original 500 disciples
of the buddha who went out into the
world like the Apostles did for Jesus
and taught these lessons that they
learned 18 of these exercises in
particular were embraced by Chan
Buddhism and for these 18 this law Han
sure Paschal that's what it's named for
Shaolin is famous for kungfu and Chan
Buddhism no small amount of effort has
been expended over the centuries by
these Shaolin masters to unify the two
Chan Buddhism and Shaolin style martial
arts that's where we get the term Chan
Chan Hui
as the saying went Chen that's Mandarin
for fist and has come to also mean
boxing and fighting or fighting style
the law han 18 hands covers different
movements and postures and these 18
later became 36 the law hunt 18 hands
covers different movements and postures
in these 18 later became 36 in the Tong
dynasty and 173 in the sonne by the Ming
there were 18 different forms of law Han
18 hands that had 18 postures each so 18
times 18 equals 324 postures to this art
but the original 18 are what somebody
studying Shaolin kung-fu might start
with today emperor Liang Moody
Emperor Wu of Liang he reigned 502 to
549 he was a contemporary of bodhidharma
and a big-time Buddhist patron
supposedly and according to some
accounts Emperor Wu actually got to meet
with Bodhi Dharma this is during the nun
Beach hall period northern and southern
dynasties period we all know from past
episodes this is when Buddhism had its
Great Leap Forward in China
as I mentioned Shaolin Temple was
founded 495 during the reign of the
Northern Wei one of the northern
dynasties during Emperor shaolin's time
Shaolin Temple was built on the north
face of one of the seven peaks of song
shan and the central peak called
shou shirt song shan or mount song is
one of the Wu yet the five Great
mountains of China the other for being
Tai Shan in Shandong Huashan in Shaanxi
Hongshan in Hunan and Hongshan in
Shaanxi different character hung now
during the fifteen sixteen hundreds
Shaolin Temple was already renowned
throughout the land and even attracted
tourists who would come to see the
gongfu that the monks there were already
famous for they called it Shaolin Chand
shirt Shaolin fist style
it was the fighting style developed and
practiced at this temple to both kung-fu
and Chan Buddhism all kinds of manuals
and treatises on wushu were written
about all the new schools styles and
techniques both armed and unarmed combat
in 1784 this is during the Ching dynasty
a book came out called the boxing
classic which named Shaolin Temple as
the birthplace of kungfu the Shaolin
monks divided all shoe up into two parts
nae kkum and Wycombe inner and outer
Gong or exercises that trained your
internal organs and those that benefited
your muscles and bones it helped them
internally nae kkum wycombe weren't
about striking kicking or killing
someone with a weapon a lot of what Tong
gongfu is all about concerns this nei
this inner part this Wudang style in
Chinese was called Wu Tang Shen Wu dong
in the old way jail system of writing
Chinese is spelled w u ta ng and those
two syllables were later adopted by the
great hip-hop band the Wu Tang Clan and
they got the inspiration
for that name from the 1983 Gordon Liu
directed film Charlene you Wu dong Xiao
Ling and Wu Tang which cast a light on
the rivalry that existed between these
two ancient schools Shaolin style and Wu
Tang style Tai Chi Chan BA kua Chang
whooshing Chan were considered Wu Tang
styles more mental than physical maybe
the most famous part of Wu Tang style is
the Wu Tang sword a technique of sword
fighting that began in the late Ching
and carried forward into the Republican
era it's also called the Wu Tang Taoist
sword Wu dong techniques are heavily
inspired by Taoism these Lu Tung swords
ranged from 26 to 36 inches depending on
how tall you were I've seen a few wooden
sword exhibitions before and they are
very exciting Wu Tang style may or may
not have originated in the Wudang
mountains in hebei south of where
Shaolin Temple is located that's what
the legends and writings say at least
whereas Shaolin gongfu originated in her
nun and was tied to Buddhism Wu Tang
style came from Hebei and was tied to
Taoism and in fact was located in the
Wudang mountains one of the four sacred
mountains of Taoism to the other three
being long full mountain in Jiang Shi Qi
Yunnan in an way and ching chong
mountain in sichuan that's another major
distinction between the two styles one
tied to Buddhism one tied to Taoism
shaolin monastery today has a total of
six hundred and twenty thousand square
feet with seven main halls and seven
surrounding halls it has been visited by
emperors and dignitaries including the
Tong Empress woods attend a hall of fame
benefactor of Buddhism in China in 1704
the Kangxi Emperor
on a visit to Shaolin Temple wrote in
his calligraphy Shaolin suit which was
displayed at the front gate of the
temple Russia's pugilist President Vlad
pootin visited Sheldon in 2006 first
foreign leader to ever do that anyone
who has followed Russia's president
knows all these martial arts publicity
stills ain't only for show he's a
serious practitioner of Judo with the
renowned and importance of Shaolin as
the center of the predominantly most
popular Buddhist sect in China it was
inevitable that from time to time they'd
get caught up in politics which is
always dangerous especially when you
ally yourself with the wrong side
Shaolin was no stranger to destruction
it had been burned down and rebuilt
several times over the centuries during
the red turban rebellion late year and
early Ming again by leads the tongue at
the start of the Ching and later on in
1928 by the warlord Cherie O son yeah
the good old defector general that thou
could yong-joon and of course during the
Cultural Revolution the Red Guards gave
the place a once-over some more of
Shaolin Temple when we discuss Wing Chun
in the next episode China enjoyed a nice
stretch of prosperity peace and cultural
development during the Tang Dynasty
early 7th century to the early 10th well
it wasn't always peaceful but with all
the Silk Road trade going on it had
created this dynamic where people from
all parts of the world all came to the
Tong capital at Chang An presentation
and people from these faraway places
they got to see Chinese wushu displays
and many began studying it and brought
this back to the lands far to the west
where they had come from one of the
biggest game changers in Chinese and
world military history occurred during
the Song Dynasty with the introduction
of gunpowder technologies Hwa Yong they
initially figured it all out in the
tongue as far as the approximate ratio
of saltpeter sulfur and charcoal but the
song is when gunpowder came of age and
the formula perfected the Chinese
guarded this secret like like coca-cola
did with its secret formula
but unlike coke
China's secret got out it was a lot less
complicated this is where the
differentiation was made between what
were referred to as hot and cold weapons
anything that use gunpowder was called a
hot weapon the invention of gunpowder
didn't spell the end of the cold weapons
business swords and other handheld
weapons still kept getting better and
better
and another thing by this time public
performances and exhibitions of wushu
were commonplace and no longer just
something enjoyed within aristocratic
circles it had spread to the common folk
too and once it permeated that mass of
people and percolated for enough time
you began to see what became known as
folk based martial arts that emerged
alongside the more deeper rooted styles
initially taught by the knights-errant
of your and later elites as well as at
Shaolin and Wudang another head lighting
bit of martial arts history emerged
during the song the northern song that
is I blabbed on and on about this person
in part seven I believe it was of the
history of Chinese philosophy series Jo
dong Yi he was one of the five founders
of neo-confucianism he brought us the
Tai Chi to show the diagram explaining
the supreme ultimate the many are
ultimately one and the one is ultimate
he figured out how to tie the concepts
of yin-yang Confucian thought and Taoism
that's quite a feat but Jodoin Yi was no
ordinary person this is the system from
which Tai Chi Chen emerged the iconic
yin-yang symbol we all know is a
representation of the ultimate the Tai
Chi the song emperor weight song much
was written about his love of these
ruies spectacles
I don't think I mentioned that however
in the four-part series I did on his
life back in 2014 the same amazing feats
of skill strength acrobatics and daring
do it was embraced by people back then
as it is today
what so many of us in America have
embraced in China
they've been enjoying this since ancient
times some argue America started with
the settlement at Jamestown in 1607 400
years ago by then the Chinese had
already been practicing the site for
more than a thousand years and for many
this was also a form of local
entertainment martial arts have always
been fantastic crowd pleasers and that's
all over the world so you can see how it
unfolded in China how weapons and the
martial arts and and with each new
innovation from stone to copper to
bronze to iron to steel basic weapons
became more refined and more deadly and
now in the Song Dynasty one of the most
golden ages China ever had gunpowder
gets thrown into the mix martial arts as
entertainment well as I said was already
old hat going back to the most ancient
forms of armed and unarmed combat it had
already been infused with Eden young Chi
and the five elements now in the song
beginning with Joe Dewey and later with
others who carried his thought forward
these natural forces became even further
infused with Rou Confucian and Taoist
philosophy there's a bit of a hiatus
during the UN if you've listened to
enough CHP episodes you know the
Jurchens put an end of the Song Dynasty
in eleven twenty seven but the song
lived on to fight another day down in
the southern part of China and they hung
in there by the skin of their teeth
until the dynasty fell to the Mongols
led by Kublai Khan in 1279 now during
this southern Song Dynasty period
between 1127 and when the end came as I
said in 1279 China got to have yet
another period of magnificent cultural
development including with wushu but
during the Mongol Yuan Dynasty the
authorities put the kibosh on anyone
studying martial arts and when I say
anyone I mean Han Chinese the Mongols
had their own wushu and they were
allowed to train but for
the Concord Chinese no martial-arts
allowed and there was a prohibition on
the study of wushu and this also
included the ancient forms like Jody and
not only that owning weapons and all the
tools of the martial arts trade and was
prohibited
it wasn't prohibited under pain of death
but the punishment was still severe the
Mongol to Han Chinese population ratio
was such that well the rulers felt
compelled to do a version of abolishing
the Second Amendment so during the Grand
Dynasty all Han were prohibited from
owning arms and practicing the martial
arts but that didn't mean that martial
arts stood still the workaround of this
prohibition was that although people
couldn't own these weapons and couldn't
train at home it wasn't illegal to
perform these skills on stage and to
create a whole genre of theater and
acrobatics that involved many different
styles of wushu both established styles
and among those developing out in the
countryside and the prohibited weapons
were simply redesigned as benign props
and what became the local entertainment
was this saju or for act poetic dramas
that contain plenty of acrobatic
pugilism and during the UN the reliable
go-to topics were those that concern
heroes like Leo bang and Xiang Yu and
their true Han contention anything Three
Kingdoms and later on came the shui
who'd run or the water margin more than
a hundred of these shot you plays from
this time survived into our day what
cereal was for podcasting that's what
Shui who drawn the water margin was for
mass interest of wushu by the common
folk anyway this book and the stories it
contained
fan the flames like nothing else to
popularize this art on a more mass scale
peasants were illiterate but the stories
from this Chinese classic novel were
told and retold in all kinds of public
storytelling and other traumatic ways
and after the UN fell
in the mean was established 1368 these
laws against Han Chinese owning weapons
and practicing martial arts were
rescinded and like was so much of
everything else developing in China the
Ming Dynasty was another glorious period
for wushu more styles were introduced
and what was already practiced all over
China continued to spread out amongst
the masses by the time of the mid to
late King interest in three of the more
popular styles of wushu Tai Chi Chan ba
kua Chang and whooshing Chen became even
more widely embraced and for the first
time 19th century Chinese martial arts
becomes less about the battle end of the
art and began to gravitate more in the
direction of health and personal fitness
as well as organized competition and of
course for self-defense by the late Qing
and early Republican era it was part and
parcel of Chinese popular health and
physical fitness culture but not only
that this regimen was imbued with
philosophy and other ancient teachings
and provided a holistic way to keep
everything in balance and when I say
everything I mean the ena and young
during the early Ching the Kang XI
period along came a noteworthy Shaolin
master named Wang LAN who through his
observations of one of the most deadly
animals in nature for its size anyway
the praying mantis developed this tongue
lung chin or praying mantis style of
boxing throughout the ages other animals
had always provided the necessary
inspiration to other masters who
observed how they defended and attacked
in nature and some of these movements
were adapted for the human body this had
been going on for centuries of course
but now in the Ching relative recent
history 1644 to 1911 everything old and
new was being very carefully written
down illustrated transmitted and taught
wang lang style was later referred to as
northern praying mantis
he came from Shandong up in the north
this is the style you've seen in a
million kung fu movies where the fighter
circles his prey hooks his fingers in a
certain way one two or three fingers
just like a mantis in fact they call
this the tangling goat the praying
mantis hook it's used like a whip to
deflect attacks and move the speed of a
mantis to attack opponents
vulnerabilities just like in nature the
praying mantis style uses speed and a
non-stop precision attack sequence if
there's a northern style no there's also
a southern style in the South they call
this praying mantis style naan pie
tongue lunch in you know who had said
brought this style of kung fu to the
south of China the Hakka people they
originally came from northern and
central China but later made their home
in and around southwest Fujian and
northeast guangdong and their southern
style praying mantis technique was made
for close range fighting involving the
fists more than kicking like i said
there were multiple styles even the
Taipings and their rebellion that led to
more than 20 million deaths in China
they too had their own styles and
heavily promoted traditional Chinese
martial arts within their ranks during
the Shenlong period basically the 18th
century you had the rise the White Lotus
society and a slew of other secret
societies who emerged on the scene and
wushu started to become associated with
these organizations many of the members
of these underground societies like the
10d Kwai for example the heaven and
earth society they were anti Ching in
nature and why were they anti Ching
because these Ching Emperor's were not
Han Chinese they were man shoes and
there had been resistance against the
Manchu Qing government practically from
the day the dynasty was declared in the
Ching late Qing especially Chinese
gongfu as a way of life and a path to
follow that allowed you to achieve
perfect inner and outer harmony
it really took off and spread as far and
wide as the Chinese diaspora could take
it I guess which is basically all over
the world one of the sexes that emerge
from the White Lotus Society was the
eheh Chen Tran of course meaning fist or
boxing or to box and Eva meaning
righteous and harmonious the righteous
harmonious fists are as they were known
in Western history
the boxers this was perhaps the most
well known of all these patriotic anti
for and anti imperialist groups it was a
magnet for a lot of like-minded wushu
practitioners and with the vilification
of the boxers after the rebellion was
put down that sort of gave martial arts
a bit of a bad smell but nothing that
was long-lasting though around the same
time as the Boxer Rebellion the National
Military exam system that had been
practiced for centuries in China was
done away with
ever since the Song Dynasty when
gunpowder moved front and center to
military conflict traditional wushu
involving combat with cold weapons and
hand-to-hand combat well that began to
take a backseat and in 1901 when the
exam system was eliminated altogether
all of this traditional fighting was
relegated to the arena of this folk
wushu the 19th century was where
everything started getting organized and
practitioners of martial arts began to
coalesce around different schools that
practice different techniques magazines
journals books authoritative guides just
exploded onto the scene gongfu is an
entire way of life became more and more
popular late in the 19th century ba kua
Chang eight trigram poem was a style
created or at least popularized by dong
hai chuan in the early 1880s dong learn
the basics from Taoist priests and later
went on to teach this Bock watch on
eight trigram palm in Beijing at the
Imperial Palace he was a giant in his
day ba kua Chang has
multiple styles not just one and they
have their own weapons and they gained
early repute for the skill of their
martial artists who supposedly could
turn everyday objects into lethal
weapons bagua Zhang with its fluid
circular movements is infused with all
kinds of yin-yang theory
Taoist principles meditation breathing
and of course the II Ching The Book of
Changes it teaches how to overpower
opponents by using their aggression
against them like Tai Chi Chen BA kua
Jiang is respected for its
health-promoting qualities as a way to
keep one's self in balance physically
and spiritually and it was bong hITRON
who made it popular this was one of the
three main forms of Wudang kungfu the
most famous styles of Kung Fu by this
time no surprise were the oldest and
most established ones Shaolin style
wudang emei Tai Chi Chingy chen non chen
or southern fist style and Qi Gong which
I'm not discussing much in this episode
though the subject of Qi was fleshed out
in the history of Chinese philosophy
series may I humbly recommend that to
any martial arts practitioners tuning in
to the CHP for the first time you may
like that in 1928 the term for martial
arts wushu was officially changed by the
China Nationalist government to Gua Gua
meaning country or nation martial arts
became national arts or national
technique and these quarrel Institute's
were established all over China
nationally and at the provincial and
local level and things were even further
organized with standards put into place
and the controlling organization was
called the central Gua Institute the
chung hua Guo Zhang Quan they sponsored
competitions and wholeheartedly promoted
Chinese martial arts it was like WWF or
anything but thanks to these modern
times in the efforts of this Zhang hua
Guo Zhang Quan there was a national
awareness about martial arts and more
and more people began to embrace this
millennia-old our
just like they do here in the US and in
the world over another Institute that
did much to spread and build will shew
both in China and internationally was
the Jingle Athletic Association the Jing
Wu tu Wei this association has been
around since 1910 it's also known as
chin Wu CH I n wo o the Jing Wu Athletic
Association was a passion project of its
founder Grandmaster Hall you and Gia
whose objective was to set up convenient
and reputable places were all Chinese
who were interested can come and learn
gongfu in the earliest days of
international competition matches were
arranged that pitted Chinese martial
artists against Europeans with skills
and wrestling boxing and other martial
arts in the 1920s several of these
jingle masters left China and spread out
throughout Southeast Asia to offer their
skills and techniques to students
elsewhere wishing to learn Jing Wu among
other things promotes three virtues
wisdom benevolence and courage there are
also 10 concepts that they promote that
collectively echo the words and deeds of
the great Confucian philosophers by 1949
wushu became more of a sport competition
became front and center and every style
every school had their own competitions
their own weapons and their own masters
and grandmasters techniques were
standardized and because travel in the
20th century was simple and convenient
compared to what it used to be
internationally Chinese martial arts was
embraced like never before and soon
there were regular international
competitions this year and June 2018
this month as I record this will be the
20th anniversary of the international
Chinese martial arts Championships as
being held in Orlando Florida there are
a few other American associations that
promote the sport and spread awareness
and as I indicated not just here in the
US the
big slice of Chinese culture is global
in stature and a way of life for many of
those the world over who have chosen to
walk this path Chinese gongfu and some
of the martial arts being as ancient as
they were
well they didn't fare too well during
the Cultural Revolution these arts and
practices fell squarely within the
confines of the four olds the suit yo
old customs old culture old habits and
old ideas like a lot of intellectual and
traditional Chinese pursuits martial
arts had to lay low during these years
of chaos a lot of books ancient
documents and what not related to wushu
were destroyed and as I mentioned before
Shaolin Temple didn't fare too well at
the hands of the Red Guards during the
Cultural Revolution a lot of gongfu
masters like a lot of teachers had to
put up with many degrading and
humiliating actions taken against them
but eventually these years of chaos did
end and like I said today around the
world Chinese martial arts is embraced
by millions and millions of people for
its long proven effectiveness as a means
of self-defense exercise internal and
external health and for all the wisdom
that over the centuries wrapped itself
around this most Chinese of cultural
treasures let's put the bookmark in
right here for now next episode will mop
up from this overview of the history of
the development of Chinese martial arts
and then I'm gonna zero in on the Wing
Chun style and talk more about Shaolin
Temple and the legendary southern
Shaolin Temple all for next episode
anyone new to the program again thanks
for checking out the CHP if you're only
here for the wool shoe and nothing else
hey why don't you go check out my
history of t10 part series you might
like that that's been featured in Cathay
Pacific Airways in-flight entertainment
system for something like two years
already
there are also episodes on the Hong Kong
triads as well as a three parter on the
tong wars of new york chinatown and if
your interest in chinese history is
piqued at all a baby over 200 and
something ours
of audio waiting for you on my server so
until the next time you little beauties
Laszlo Montgomery here signing off from
the west coast of the USA Los Angeles
California imploring you once again to
not walk away just yet and to join us
next time for another exciting episode
of the China history podcast
you